Simple image cropping examples and tutorial in React (#4)
appwrite/demos-for-react: example-cropping/README.md

```js
import 'appwrite';
const appwrite = new window.Appwrite();
function appWrite({ endpoint, projectId }) {
  let ep = endpoint || 'http://localhost/v1';
  let pi = projectId || 'ProjectID';
  return appwrite
    .setEndpoint(ep)
    .setProject(pi)

}
export { appWrite };

```

## How To Use Cropping Using Appwrite SDK

To crop an image using appwrite SDK is actually pretty simple you just need to upload your file into appwrite storage then preview the image and pass the optional parameters, if you take a look at the js docs in https://appwrite.io/docs/client/storage#getFilePreview you will see all of the optional parameters and how to use it. Below is the example of how to use it using js SDK

```js
let sdk = new Appwrite();

sdk
    .setEndpoint('https://[HOSTNAME_OR_IP]/v1') // Your API Endpoint
    .setProject('5df5acd0d48c2') // Your project ID
;

let result = sdk.storage.getFilePreview('[FILE_ID]',300,null,100,null,"webp");

console.log(result); // Resource URL for example http://localhost/v1/storage/files/5f70694f8637d/preview?width=300&quality=100&output=webp&project=5f6f49028c5b9

```

> using the above script we will get our image with the output that we like so for example we pass 300 as width,100 as quality and output webp we will get exactly the output like that without the need of cdn to change the width, height, quality ,background, and output the appwrite will do it just like we want. Now we will create a component that can implement this functionality using react, below is step by step how to create simple app that can crop our image from appwrite storage starting from signup, login, upload, list, then preview and crop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using the above script we will get our image with the output that we like so for example we pass 300 as width,100 as quality and output webp we can get the exact output without the need of CDN. Appwrite will do it just like we want. Now we will create a component that can implement this functionality using react, below is the step by step procedure on how to create a simple app that can crop our image from Appwrite storage starting from signup, login, upload, list, then preview and crop.
```

## Step 1 - Create PreviewImage Component

> So this is actually the main ingredient in our tutorial what this does is to show the preview of the image in our server and return in a spesific parameter that we want so in order to use this component we can pass the parameter exactly the same as in the appwrite SDK documentation which is id,width,height,quality,background,and output and it will output the image with that spesific condition which mean this component is used for cropping an image that we get from our storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So this is actually the main ingredient in our tutorial what this does is to show the preview of the image in our server and return in a spesific parameter that we want so in order to use this component we can pass the parameter exactly the same as in the appwrite SDK documentation which is id, width, height, quality, background and output and it will output the image with that specific condition which means this component is used for cropping an image that we get from our storage.
```

```js
import React, { useState } from 'react';

function PreviewImage(props) {

  function getImage(id){

    let mWidth=props.width || null;
    let mHeight=props.height || null;
    let mQuality=props.quality || 100;
    let mBackground=props.background || null;
    let mOutput=props.output || null;
    let image=props.appwrite.storage.getFilePreview(id,mWidth,mHeight,mQuality,mBackground,mOutput);

    return image
  }

    return (<img src={props.id?getImage(props.id):""} />)
  
};

export { PreviewImage };
```

> example usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example usage
```

```js
<PreviewImage appwrite={props.appwrite} width={width} height={height} quality={quality} background={background} output={output} id={props.imageId} />
```

> as you can see there is so many props there to use it actually the same as in the SDK but instead we implement it in react the different maybe there is ```appwrite``` props which is used for interacting with appwrite SDK

Reviewer: Hmm. I'm not sure I understood the meaning of this line

Reviewer 2: actually the props there is the same as parameter in appwrite SDK 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/62529025/95676992-b01fe600-0bec-11eb-9700-124cade66a44.png)
maybe the word should be rewrited let me rewrite it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the props that you can use in this component is actually the same as in the appwrite SDK which is id, width, height, quality, background, and output you can check the function in the docs [here](https://appwrite.io/docs/client/storage#getFilePreview)
```

how about this one?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The props that you can use in this component are actually the same as in the Appwrite SDK which is id, width, height, quality, background, and output. You can check the function in the docs [here](https://appwrite.io/docs/client/storage#getFilePreview)
```

This is better

        onChange={(event) => setEmail(event.target.value)} 
          variant="outlined"
          margin="normal"
          required
          fullWidth
          id="email"
          label="Email Address"
          name="email"
          autoComplete="email"
          autoFocus
        />
        <TextField
        onChange={(event) => setPassword(event.target.value)}
          variant="outlined"
          margin="normal"
          required
          fullWidth
          name="password"
          label="Password"
          type="password"
          id="password"
          autoComplete="current-password"
        />
       
        <Button
          type="submit"
          fullWidth
          variant="contained"
          color="primary"
          className={classes.submit}
          disabled={loading}
        >
          Sign Up
        </Button>
        <Grid container>
          
          <Grid item>
            <Link href="#" variant="body2" onClick={()=>props.setCurrentPage(props.currentPage)}>
              {"have an account? Login"}
            </Link>
          </Grid>
        </Grid>
      </form>
    </div>
  </Container>
  )

};

export { SignUp };
```

> example usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example usage
```

```js
<SignUp
            appwrite={appwrite}
            currentPage={currentPage}
            setCurrentPage={(currentPage) => setCurrentPage(!currentPage)}
          />
```

> it takes three props which is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It takes three props which is 
```

- ```appwrite``` to connect to appwrite server using sdk
- ```currentPage``` the state of login or sign up
- ```setCurrentPage``` to switch between login and sign up

> so what this does is process the sign up through ```signUp``` function then if success it will go to login component so that we can login using that credential notice that we dont have email verification here because the purpose of the this tutorial is actually to cropping an image and this step is one of the step to implement that functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So what this does is process the sign up through ```signUp``` function then if success it will go to login component so that we can login using that credential. Notice that we don't have email verification here because it is beyond the scope of this tutorial
```

            margin="normal"
            required
            fullWidth
            id="email"
            label="Email Address"
            name="email"
            autoComplete="email"
            autoFocus
          />
          <TextField
          onChange={(event) => setPassword(event.target.value)}
            variant="outlined"
            margin="normal"
            required
            fullWidth
            name="password"
            label="Password"
            type="password"
            id="password"
            autoComplete="current-password"
          />
         
          <Button
            type="submit"
            fullWidth
            variant="contained"
            color="primary"
            className={classes.submit}
            disabled={loading}
          >
            Login
          </Button>
          <Grid container>
            
            <Grid item>
              <Link href="#" variant="body2" onClick={()=>props.setCurrentPage(props.currentPage)}>
                {"Don't have an account? Sign Up"}
              </Link>
            </Grid>
          </Grid>
        </form>
      </div>
    </Container>
  );
}

export {Login}

```

> example usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example usage
```

```js
   <Login
            appwrite={appwrite}
            currentPage={currentPage}
            getUserData={getUserData}
            setCurrentPage={(currentPage) => setCurrentPage(!currentPage)}
          />
```

> it takes four props which is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It takes four props which is 
```

- ```appwrite``` to connect to appwrite server using sdk
- ```currentPage``` the state of login or sign up
- ```setCurrentPage``` to switch between login and sign up
- ```getUserData``` to check we already login or not

> here we implement login because in order for us to be able to crop an image we should login to our appwrite server and this component does exactly that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we implement login because in order for us to be able to crop an image we should login to our appwrite server and this component does exactly that.
```

## Step 4 - Create UploadImage Component

> UploadImage component is used for uploading component through appwrite SDK so after we login in order for us to crop an image we should upload our image so that we can crop it later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UploadImage component is used for uploading component through appwrite SDK so after we login in order for us to crop an image we should upload our image so that we can crop it later.
```
```suggestion
UploadImage component is used for uploading an image using the Appwrite SDK. Uploading an image will allow us to crop it later. 
```

```js
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import Button from "@material-ui/core/Button";
function UploadImage(props) {
  const [loading, setLoading] = useState(false);
  const [uploadFile, setUploadFile] = useState(null);
  const [error, setError] = useState(false);

  let processUpload = async (props) => {
    setLoading(true)
    try {
      let promise = await props.appwrite.storage.createFile(uploadFile, ['*'], ['*']);
      setLoading(false)
    } catch (e) {
      setLoading(false)
      setError(e.message)
    }

  }
  let onFileChange = e => {
    setUploadFile(e.target.files[0])
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Upload Image</h1>
      {error && (<p>{error}</p>)}
      <input type="file" onChange={onFileChange} />
      <Button
          
          variant="contained"
          color="primary"
          disabled={loading} onClick={() => { processUpload(props) }}
        >
         Upload
        </Button>
     

    </div>
  )

};

export { UploadImage };
```

> example usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example usage
```

```js

>   <UploadImage appwrite={appwrite} />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<UploadImage appwrite={appwrite} />
```

```

> this only take one props which is appwrite for connecting to our server using appwrite sdk also if you notice this code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This only take one props which is Appwrite for connecting to our server using Appwrite sdk
```

```js
await props.appwrite.storage.createFile(uploadFile, ['*'], ['*']);
```

> is actually for uploading our file whether its image or but in this tutorial we will use image and this function actually take three parameters you can take a look the detailed explanation here https://appwrite.io/docs/client/storage#createFile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is actually for creating any file but in this tutorial we will use it to create an image file and this function takea three parameters. You can take a look the detailed explanation here https://appwrite.io/docs/client/storage#createFile
```

## Step 5 - Create ListImage Component

> So after we done uploading our image we want to see all of our image that we upload right? so in order to do that we create a ```ListImage``` component so that we can show our image from the server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So after we're done uploading our image we would want to see all of our images that we uploaded right? So in order to do that we create a ```ListImage``` component so that we can display our images stored on the server
```

  async function getAllImages() {
    let images = await props.appwrite.storage.listFiles();
    let me=[...images.files];
   
    setListImages(me)

  }

  useEffect(() => {
    getAllImages()

  }, []);
  useEffect(() => {

  }, [active]);
 
  async function selectImage(e, id, index) {

    setActive(index)
    props.changeImage(id)

  }
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>List Image</h1>
      
<Button
          style={{marginBottom:30}}
          variant="contained"
          color="primary"
          onClick={()=>getAllImages()}
        >
      Refresh List
        </Button>
  
      
        <Grid
  container
  direction="row"
  spacing={5}
>
{listImages?.length && listImages.length > 0 ? listImages.map((a, index) => {
        a.color = active === index ? "solid" : "none";

        return (
          <Grid container justify="center" xs={4} item key={index} style={{  border: a.color, cursor: "pointer" }} onClick={(e) => selectImage(e, a.$id, index)}>

            <PreviewImage width={300} output={"webp"} appwrite={props.appwrite} id={a.$id} />
          </Grid>

        )
      }) : ""}
</Grid>
      
    </div>
  )

};

export { ListImage };

```

> example usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example usage
```

```js
<ListImage appwrite={appwrite} changeImage={(id) => changeImage(id)} />
```

> there is two props here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is two props here:
```

- ```appwrite``` for using the appwrite SDK
- ```changeImage``` to pick or change an image that we want to crop later in ```PreviewAndCrop``` component

## Step 6 - Create PreviewAndCrop Component

> So what this component does is it takes the imake that we pick from the list images then we change the value of the width, height etc. here. So that we can preview how the image look like after cropping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So what this component does is it takes the image that we pick from the list of images and allows us to change the value of the width, height etc. here. So that we can preview how the image looks after cropping.
```

          onChange={(e)=>setQuality(e.target.value===''?'':Number(e.target.value))}
          onBlur={()=>{
            if (quality < 0) {
              setQuality(0);
            } else if (quality > 100) {
              setQuality(100);
            }
          }}
          inputProps={{
            step: 1,
            min: 0,
            max: 100,
            type: 'number',
            'aria-labelledby': 'input-slider',
          }}
        /> possible values 0 - 100
</Grid>
<Grid item>
background : <input style={{marginRight:10}} type="color" onChange={(e)=>setBackground(e.target.value.replace("#",""))}/>
 only works for png with transparent background
</Grid>
<Grid item >
output : <select onChange={(e)=>setOutput(e.target.value)}>
  <option value="jpeg">jpeg</option>
  <option value="jpg">jpg</option>
  <option value="png">png</option>
  <option value="gif">gif</option>
  <option value="webp">webp</option>
</select>
</Grid>
</Grid>
<Grid item style={{marginTop:15}}>
<PreviewImage appwrite={props.appwrite} width={width} height={height} quality={quality} background={background} output={output} id={props.imageId} />
</Grid>

   </div>
  
 )
  
};

export { PreviewAndCrop };
```

> example usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example usage
```

```js
<PreviewAndCrop imageId={imageId} appwrite={appwrite} />
```

> there is two props here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is two props here:
```

- ```imageId``` to get the state of imageId that we get from ```ListImages``` component and preview it using ```PreviewImage``` component
- ```appwrite``` for using the appwrite SDK

## Step 7 - Putting it all together in App.js

> So in order for this application to work we should put all of our component into ```App.js``` so that we can see how our cropped image looks like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So in order for this application to work we should put all of our components into ```App.js``` so that we can see how our cropped image looks
```

    } catch (err) {
      console.log(err)
    }
  }

  async function logout() {
    await setUserProfile(false);
    appwrite.account.deleteSession('current');
  }
  useEffect(() => {

    getUserData()
  }, []);

 
  return (
    <div>

      {!userProfile && (
        <div >
          <Login
            appwrite={appwrite}
            currentPage={currentPage}
            getUserData={getUserData}
            setCurrentPage={(currentPage) => setCurrentPage(!currentPage)}
          />
          <SignUp
            appwrite={appwrite}
            currentPage={currentPage}
            setCurrentPage={(currentPage) => setCurrentPage(!currentPage)}
          />

        </div>
      )}
      {userProfile && (
        <Container component="main"  >
        
          <UploadImage appwrite={appwrite} />
          <ListImage appwrite={appwrite} changeImage={(id) => setImageId(id)} />
          <PreviewAndCrop imageId={imageId} appwrite={appwrite} />
          <Button 
           variant="contained"
           color="primary"
          onClick={() => logout()}>
          LOGOUT
        </Button>
          
        </Container>

      )}

    </div>
  )

};

export default App;
```

> so here is our final application look like there is 4 state that we use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So here's what our final application looks like. There are 4 state variables that we use
```

- ```appwrite``` state to implement the appwrite SDK that we create in ```utils.js``` earlier
- ```userProfile``` to check whether we already login or not
- ```currentPage``` to change between sign up and login
- ```imageId``` to pick the image that we want to crop in ```ListImages``` component then crop it using ```PreviewAndCrop``` component

> there is two function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two functions
```

- ```getUserData``` to check whether we already login or not using appwrite SDK
- ```logout``` to logout of the application

## What next?

Congratulations! You've just created a image cropping page using React and Appwrite! 🥳🥳🥳

> Notice that i use material ui for the design here you can change that if you don't like it, but the most important thing here is you learn how to use the preview and cropping API of appwrite SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that I used material ui for the design here. You can change that if you don't like it, but the most important thing here is you learn how to use the preview and cropping API of Appwrite SDK.
```
